:notoc: true

.. _itsc_2026:

.. meta::
   :description: IPerSense at IEEE ITSC 2026 is a half-day workshop on infrastructure-based perception for connected and automated mobility.
   :keywords: IEEE ITSC 2026, workshop, infrastructure-based perception, connected vehicles, cooperative perception, digital twins
   :author: IPerSense Workshop Series

IPerSense at IEEE ITSC 2026
===========================

Status
------

.. admonition:: 2026-04-20 — Workshop accepted
   :class: tip

   We are happy to announce that the **IPerSense** workshop proposal for
   **IEEE ITSC 2026** has been accepted. This page will be updated as the
   organiser team finalises speakers, programme, and participation details.

Overview
--------

- Format: Half-day
- Location: `IEEE ITSC 2026, Naples, Italy <https://ieee-itsc.org/2026/>`_
- Date/Time: September 15, 2026 at  TBA
- Contact: `schaefer@embedded.rwth-aachen.de <mailto:schaefer@embedded.rwth-aachen.de>`_
- Calendar reminder: :download:`Add workshop reminder (.ics) <../assets/ipersense_itsc_2026.ics>`

Abstract
--------

The iteration of **IPerSense** focuses on infrastructure-based perception systems for connected
and automated mobility.

Future automated and connected vehicles increasingly rely on
**infrastructure-based perception** to overcome line-of-sight limitations of
onboard sensors, enhance redundancy in distributed sensor networks, and enable
reliable, uncertainty-aware state estimation at safety-critical locations.
By offloading part of the perception task to the infrastructure, road
operators can detect occluded road users, support cooperative manoeuvres, and
provide trusted situational awareness to vehicles and traffic management
centres.

Infrastructure-based perception systems use roadside units equipped with
cameras, lidar, radar, and in-road load-sensing technologies. In-road sensors
capture tire contact patches and dynamic wheel loads within the pavement,
complementing overhead bounding-box sensing with axle configurations and
traffic-induced forces. These measurements support safety applications and the
development of digital twins of road infrastructure.

Validation of these systems spans three levels: simulation, small-scale
experimentation, and full-scale deployment. Simulation enables rapid
prototyping, while small-scale testbeds provide an intermediate step between
virtual studies and costly field trials.

Detailed information about the organiser team for this workshop instance is listed on :doc:`../about`.

Topics of interest
------------------

Based on the accepted proposal, the workshop focuses on the following themes:

- Infrastructure-based perception for automated and connected vehicles
- Roadside sensing with cameras, lidar, radar, and related sensor suites
- In-road load-sensing technologies and traffic-induced force measurements
- Redundancy, uncertainty-aware state estimation, and safety-critical operation
- Cooperative support for occluded road users and connected manoeuvres
- Digital twins of road infrastructure and validation workflows
- Simulation, small-scale experimentation, and full-scale deployment

Speakers
--------

Speaker information will be announced soon.

Programme (tentative)
---------------------

The detailed programme will be added once the final agenda is available.

.. list-table:: 
   :widths: 25 50 25
   :header-rows: 0

   *  - Time
      - Event Type
      - Remarks
   *  - 8:30 am - 8:40 am
      - Arrival and Registration
      - 10 min registration and welcome
   *  - 8:40 am - 8:45 am
      - Opening Remarks by organizers
      - 5 min introduction
   *  - 8:45 am - 9:05 am
      - Presenter I - Title I
      - 15 min talk + 5 min Q/A
   *  - 9:05 am - 9:25 am
      - Presenter II - Title II
      - 15 min talk + 5 min Q/A
   *  - 9:25 am - 9:45 am
      - Presenter III - Title III
      - 15 min talk + 5 min Q/A
   *  - 9:45 am - 10:05 am
      - Presenter IV - Title IV
      - 15 min talk + 5 min Q/A
   *  - 10:05 am - 10:45 am
      - All Speakers - Panel Discussion
      - 40 min moderated by organizers
   *  - 10:45 am - 11:00 am
      - Conclusion and Closing Remarks by organizers
      - 15 min farewell

Attendance and registration
-----------------------------

This workshop is held at **IEEE ITSC 2026**.
Participation requires registration for **IEEE ITSC 2026** at least for the
workshop day and is included in a full conference registration.

See the official conference website for registration, venue, and local
information:
`IEEE ITSC 2026 <https://ieee-itsc.org/2026/>`_.